# Secure Azure AI services

Securing Azure AI services can help prevent data loss and privacy violations for user data that may be a part of the solution.

## Learning objectives
After completing this module, you will know how to:

- Consider authentication for Azure AI services
- Manage network security for Azure AI services

---

## Consider authentication

By default, access to Azure AI services resources is restricted by using **subscription keys**. Management of access to these keys is a primary consideration for security.

### Regenerate keys

You should regenerate keys regularly to protect against the risk of keys being shared with or accessed by unauthorized users. You can regenerate keys using the Azure portal, or using the `az cognitiveservices account keys regenerate` Azure command-line interface (CLI) command.

Each AI service is provided with two keys, enabling you to regenerate keys without service interruption. To accomplish this:

1. If you're using both keys in production, change your code so that only one key is in use. For example, configure all production applications to use key 1.
2. Regenerate key 2.
3. Switch all production applications to use the newly regenerated key 2.
4. Regenerate key 1
5. Finally, update your production code to use the new key 1.

For example, to regenerate keys in the Azure portal, you can do the following:

1. In the Azure portal, go to your resource's Keys and Endpoint pane.
2. Then select Regenerate Key1 or select Regenerate Key2, depending on which one you want to regenerate at the time.

### Protect keys with Azure Key Vault

**Azure Key Vault is an Azure service in which you can securely store secrets** (such as passwords and keys). Access to the key vault is granted to security principals, which you can think of user identities that are authenticated using Microsoft Entra ID. _Administrators can assign a security principal to an application_ (in which case it is known as a **service principal**) to define a managed identity for the application. The application can then use this identity to access the key vault and retrieve a secret to which it has access. Controlling access to the secret in this way minimizes the risk of it being compromised by being hard-coded in an application or saved in a configuration file.

You can **store the subscription keys for an AI services resource in Azure Key Vault, and assign a managed identity to client applications that need to use the service**. The applications can then retrieve the key as needed from the key vault, without risk of exposing it to unauthorized users.

### Token-based authentication

When using the REST interface, some AI services support (or even require) token-based authentication. In these cases, the subscription key is presented in an initial request to obtain an authentication token, which has a valid period of 10 minutes. Subsequent requests must present the token to validate that the caller has been authenticated.

When using an SDK, the calls to obtain and present a token are handled for you by the SDK.

### Microsoft Entra ID authentication

Azure AI services supports Microsoft Entra ID authentication, enabling you to grant access to specific service principals or managed identities for apps and services running in Azure.

There are different ways you can authenticate against Azure AI services using Microsoft Entra ID, including:

#### Authenticate using service principals

The overall process to authenticate against Azure AI services using service principals is as follows:

##### Create a custom subdomain

You can create a custom subdomain in different ways including through the Azure portal, Azure CLI, or PowerShell.

For example, you can create a subdomain using PowerShell in the Azure Cloud Shell. To do this, you select your subscription using the following command:

`Set-AzContext -SubscriptionName <Your-Subscription-Name>`

Then, you create your Azure AI services resource specifying a custom subdomain by running the following:

`$account = New-AzCognitiveServicesAccount -ResourceGroupName <your-resource-group-name> -name <your-account-name> -Type <your-account-type> -SkuName <your-sku-type> -Location <your-region> -CustomSubdomainName <your-unique-subdomain-name>`

Once created, your subdomain name will be returned in the response.

##### Assign a role to a service principal

You've created an Azure AI resource that is linked with a custom subdomain. Next, you assign a role to a service principal.

To start, you'll need to register an application. To do this, you run the following command:

`$SecureStringPassword = ConvertTo-SecureString -String <your-password> -AsPlainText -Force`
`$app = New-AzureADApplication -DisplayName <your-app-display-name> -IdentifierUris <your-app-uris> -PasswordCredentials $SecureStringPassword`

This creates the application resource.

Then you use the New-AzADServicePrincipal command to create a service principal and provide your application's ID:

`New-AzADServicePrincipal -ApplicationId <app-id>`

Finally, you assign the Cognitive Services Users role to your service principal by running:

`New-AzRoleAssignment -ObjectId <your-service-principal-object-id> -Scope <account-id> -RoleDefinitionName "Cognitive Services User"`

### Authenticate using managed identities

Managed identities come in two types:

- **System-assigned managed identity**: A managed identity is created and linked to a specific resource, such as a virtual machine that needs to access Azure AI services. When the resource is deleted, the identity is deleted as well.
- **User-assigned managed identity**: The managed identity is created to be useable by multiple resources instead of being tied to one. It exists independently of any single resource.
You can assign each type of managed identity to a resource either during creation of the resource, or after it has already been created.

For example, suppose you have a virtual machine in Azure that you intend to use for daily access to Azure AI services. To enable a system-assigned identity for this virtual machine, first you make sure your Azure account has the [Virtual Machine Contributor role](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles). Then you can run the following command using Azure CLI in the Azure Cloud Shell terminal:

`az vm identity assign -g <my-resource-group> -n <my-vm>`

Then you can grant access to Azure AI services in the Azure portal using the following:

1. Go to the Azure AI services resource you want to grant the virtual machine's managed identity access.
2. In the overview panel, select Access control (IAM).
3. Select Add, and then select Add role assignment.
4. In the Role tab, select Cognitive Services Contributor.
5. In the Members tab, for the Assign access to, select Managed identity. Then, select + Select members.
6. Ensure that your subscription is selected in the Subscription dropdown. And for Managed identity, select Virtual machine.
7. Select your virtual machine in the list, and select Select.
8. Finally, select Review + assign to review, and then Review + assign again to finish.

---

## Implement network security

Network security is an important measure to **ensure unauthorized users can't reach the services** that you're protecting. Limiting what users can see is always a great idea, since they can’t compromise what they can’t see.

### Network access restrictions

By default, Azure AI services are accessible from all networks.

The following services allow for network access restrictions:

- Anomaly Detector
- Azure OpenAI
- Content Moderator
- Custom Vision
- Face
- Language Understanding (LUIS)
- Personalizer
- Speech service
- Language
- QnA Maker
- Translator

To limit access to selected networks, you must first change the default action.

### Changing the default action

**When you change the default configuration, all access to the resource is effectively denied**. When all access is denied, requests that attempt to consume the Azure AI services resource aren't permitted. This means your AI service isn't reachable by its clients. **We recommended that you add an exception to a virtual network or firewall policy as you change the default action.**

Note: The Azure portal, Azure PowerShell, or the Azure CLI can still be used to configure the Azure AI services resource.

### Configuring network access restrictions

Network setting for Azure AI services supports three options:

- **(Default) All networks**: The default option applies no networking restrictions to the resource.
- **Selected Networks and Private Endpoints**: Blocks connections to the resource, unless a rule allows access to it. These rules can be set for Azure virtual networks, IP addresses, CIDR, or Private Endpoints.
- **Disabled**: Blocks all traffic to the resource. You can still add access to Private Endpoints. This is the most restrictive option.

### Configuring access rules for virtual networks and IP addresses

To configure access rules for virtual networks and IP addresses:

1. On the Azure portal, open the Azure AI service you want to configure.
2. On the resource page, expand Resource Management on the menu on the left-hand side.
3. Choose Networking.
4. On Allow access from, select Selected Networks and Private Endpoints.
5. Under Virtual Networks, choose + Add existing virtual network.
6. You can search for the desired virtual network by typing its name in the search box.
7. Once you find the virtual network, select it from the list, and select the subnet you want to provide access to the Azure AI service resource.
8. If a Service endpoint isn't present, a warning message shows: The following networks don’t have service endpoints enabled for 'Microsoft.CognitiveServices'. Enabling access takes up to 15 minutes to complete.
9. Choose Enable.
10. Once the service is enabled, choose Add.
11. Choose Save on the resource’s Networking page.
12. Alternatively, under Firewall, you can add an IP address or IP range. Under Firewall, type the IP address you want to allow access to the Azure AI service resource.
13. Choose Save.

Note: To grant access from your on-premises networks to your Azure AI services resource with an IP network rule, you must first identify the internet-facing IP addresses used by your network. Contact your network administrator for help. If you use Azure ExpressRoute or a VPN on-premises for Microsoft peering, you need to identify the NAT IP addresses.

### Configuring access rules for private endpoint connections

**When configuring network access rules for private endpoints, you first need to consider if you want to also allow virtual networks and IP addresses.** If your goal is to restrict access to private endpoints only, you can change the Allow access from option to Disabled. However, **we recommended that you configure the private endpoint connections before you change the network access to Disabled.**

1. On the Azure portal, open the Azure AI service you want to configure.
2. On the resource page, expand Resource Management on the menu on the left-hand side.
3. Choose Networking.
4. On the Networking page, Choose Private endpoint connections.
5. Choose + Private endpoint to create a new connection.
6. On the Create a private endpoint page, make sure the Subscription, and Resource group are correct.
7. Provide a Name, Network Interface Name, and Region for the endpoint of the AI service resource and Choose Next.
8. On the Resource tab, make sure the Target subresource is the AI service you want to configure and Choose Next.
9. On the Virtual Network tab, the wizard shows the available virtual networks and subnets for your private endpoint. Select the virtual network and subnet you want to configure for this private endpoint.
10. You can also configure Dynamic or Statically allocation of IPs and Application security groups. For this tutorial, we use the default configuration. Choose Next.
11. By default, a private DNS integration is configured so the resources can query each other’s DNS name using the IP address of the private endpoint. You can change that configuration if needed. Choose Next.
12. Add the necessary Tags if needed and Choose Next.
13. On the Review + create page, make sure the configuration is validated and Choose Create.
14. The Deployment page shows the deployment progress. Once the deployment is successfully completed, close the Deployment page. 1.Open the Azure AI resource and Choose the Networking option under Resource Management.
15. Under Firewalls and virtual networks, select the option Disabled and Choose Save.
16. Choose the Private endpoint connections tab.
17. If necessary, you can reject or remove the private endpoint connection to remove access from that subnet.

### Exceptions for trusted services

A small subset of Azure services can have a preconfigured exception to network access rules for Azure AI services.

The Azure services under this class of trusted services are:

| Service name | Resource provider name |
| -- | -- |
| Azure AI Services | Microsoft.CognitiveServices |
| Azure Machine Learning (also applies to Azure AI Foundry) | Microsoft.MachineLearningServices |
| Azure AI Search | Microsoft.Search |

To enable or disable exceptions for trusted services:

1. On the Azure portal, open the Azure AI service you want to configure.
2. On the resource page, expand Resource Management on the menu on the left-hand side.
3. Choose Networking.
4. Under Firewalls and virtual networks, make sure Allow access from is set to either Selected Networks and Private Endpoints or Disabled.
5. You can check or uncheck the option Allow Azure services on the trusted services list to access this cognitive services account under Exceptions.

Note: When exceptions are enabled, these trusted services use managed identity to authenticate with your Azure AI service.

---

## Exercise

https://microsoftlearning.github.io/mslearn-ai-services/Instructions/Exercises/02-ai-services-security.html

---

## Module assessment

1. You need to regenerate the primary subscription key for an Azure AI Services resource that an app uses. What should you do first to minimize service interruption for the app? Switch the app to use the secondary key.
2. You want to store the subscription keys for an Azure AI Services resource securely, so that authorized apps can retrieve them when needed. What kind of Azure resource should you provision? Azure Key Vault
3. You want to store the subscription keys for an Azure AI Services resource securely, so that authorized apps can retrieve them when needed. What kind of Azure resource should you provision? In Networking properties, add your client's IP address to the Firewall allowed list.

