# [Develop an AI app with the Azure AI Foundry SDK](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/ai-foundry-sdk/)

Use the Azure AI Foundry SDK to develop AI applications with Azure AI Foundry projects.

## Learning objectives

After completing this module, you'll be able to:

- Describe **capabilities of the Azure AI Foundry SDK**.
- Use the Azure AI Foundry SDK to work with connections in projects.
- Use the Azure AI Foundry SDK to **develop an AI chat app**.

## Introduction

Developers creating AI solutions with Azure AI Foundry need to work with a combination of services and software frameworks. The **Azure AI Foundry SDK** is designed to bring together common services and code libraries in an AI project through a central programmatic access point, making it easier for developers to write the code needed to build effective AI apps on Azure.

In this module, you'll learn how to use the Azure AI Foundry SDK to work with resources in an AI project.

## Summary

By using the **Azure AI Foundry SDK**, you can develop rich AI applications that use resources in your Azure AI Foundry projects. **The Azure AI Foundry SDK AIProjectClient class provides a programmatic proxy for a project**, enabling you to access connected resources and to use service-specific libraries to consume them.

---

## What is the Azure AI Foundry SDK?

Azure AI Foundry provides a **REST API** that you can use to work with AI Foundry projects and the resources they contain. Additionally, **multiple language-specific SDKs** are available, enabling developers to write code that uses resources in an Azure AI Foundry project in their preferred development language. With an Azure AI Foundry SDK, developers can create applications that connect to a project, access the resource connections and models in that project, and use them to perform AI operations, such as sending prompts to a generative AI model and processing the responses.

The core package for working with projects is the **Azure AI Projects library**, which enables you to connect to an Azure AI Foundry project and access the resources defined within it. Available language-specific packages the for Azure AI Projects library include:

- [Azure AI Projects for Python](https://pypi.org/project/azure-ai-projects)
- [Azure AI Projects for Microsoft .NET](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.AI.Projects)
- [Azure AI Projects for JavaScript](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/ai-projects)

> Note: In this module, we'll use **Python** code examples for common tasks that a developer may need to perform with Azure AI Foundry projects. You can refer to the other language-specific SDK documentation to find equivalent code for your preferred language. Each SDK is developed and maintained independently, so some functionality may be at different stages of implementation for each language.

To use the Azure AI Projects library in Python, you can use the pip package installation utility to install the azure-ai-projects package from PyPi:

`pip install azure-ai-projects`

### Using the SDK to connect to a project

**The first task in most Azure AI Foundry SDK code is to connect to an Azure AI Foundry project**. Each project has a unique **endpoint**, which you can find on the project's Overview page in the Azure AI Foundry portal.

> Note: The project provides **multiple endpoints and keys**, including:
> - An endpoint for the project itself; which can be used to access project connections, agents, and models in the Azure AI Foundry resource.
> - An endpoint for **Azure OpenAI Service APIs** in the project's Azure AI Foundry resource.
> - An endpoint for **Azure AI services APIs** (such as Azure AI Vision and Azure AI Language) in the Azure AI Foundry resource.

You can use the project endpoint in your code to create an `AIProjectClient` object, which provides a programmatic proxy for the project, as shown in this Python example:

`from azure.identity import DefaultAzureCredential`
`from azure.ai.projects import AIProjectClient`
`...`

`project_endpoint = "https://......"`
`project_client = AIProjectClient(            
    credential=DefaultAzureCredential(),
    endpoint=project_endpoint)`

> Note: The code uses the default Azure credentials to authenticate when accessing the project. To enable this authentication, in addition to the **azure-ai-projects** package, you need to install the azure-identity package:
`pip install azure-identity`

> Tip: To access the project successfully, the code must be run in the context of an authenticated Azure session. For example, you could use the Azure command-line interface (CLI) `az-login` command to sign in before running the code.

---

## [Work with project connections](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/ai-foundry-sdk/03-connections)

Each Azure AI Foundry project includes **connected resources**, which are defined both at the **parent (Azure AI Foundry resource or hub) level**, and at the **project level**. Each resource is a connection to an external service, such as Azure storage, Azure AI Search, Azure OpenAI, or another Azure AI Foundry resource.

With the Azure AI Foundry SDK, you can connect to a project and retrieve connections; which you can then use to consume the connected services.

For example, the `AIProjectClient` object in Python has a **connections** property, which you can use to access the resource connections in the project. Methods of the connections object include:

- `connections.list()`: Returns a collection of connection objects, each representing a connection in the project. You can filter the results by specifying an optional `connection_type` parameter with a valid enumeration, such as `ConnectionType.AZURE_OPEN_AI`.
- `connections.get(connection_name, include_credentials)`: Returns a connection object for the connection with the name specified. If the `include_credentials` parameter is `True` (the default value), the credentials required to connect to the connection are returned - for example, in the form of an API key for an Azure AI services resource.

The connection objects returned by these methods include connection-specific properties, including credentials, which you can use to connect to the associated resource.

The following code example lists all of the resource connections that have been added to a project:

---

## Create a chat client

A common scenario in an AI application is to **connect to a generative AI model and use prompts to engage in a chat-based dialog** with it.

While you can use the Azure OpenAI SDK, to connect "directly" to a model using key-based or Microsoft Entra ID authentication; when your model is deployed in an Azure AI Foundry project, you can also use the Azure AI Foundry SDK to retrieve a project client, from which you can then get an authenticated OpenAI chat client for any models deployed in the project's Azure AI Foundry resource. This approach makes it easy to write code that consumes models deployed in your project, switching between them easily by changing the model deployment name parameter.

> Tip: You can use the OpenAI chat client provided by an Azure AI Foundry project to chat with any model deployed in the associated Azure AI Foundry resource - even non-OpenAI models, such as Microsoft Phi models.

The following Python code sample uses the `get_azure_openai_client()` method in the Azure AI project's inference operations object to get an OpenAI client with which to chat with a model that has been deployed in the project'a Azure AI Foundry resource.

> Note: In addition to the `azure-ai-projects` and `azure-identity` packages discussed previously, the sample code shown here assumes that the openai package has been installed:
`pip install openai`

---

## [Exercise - Create a generative AI chat app](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/ai-foundry-sdk/05-exercise)

### [Create a generative AI chat app](https://microsoftlearning.github.io/mslearn-ai-studio/Instructions/02a-AI-foundry-sdk.html)

In this exercise, you use the Azure AI Foundry SDK to create a simple chat app that connects to a project and chats with a language model.

---

## Module assessment

1. What class in the Azure AI Foundry SDK provides a proxy object for a project? **AIProjectClient**
2. What value is needed to instantiate a `AIProjectClient` object? **The project endpoint**.
3. Which SDK should you use to chat with a model that is deployed in an Azure AI Foundry resource? **Azure OpenAI**

---

## Summary

By using the **Azure AI Foundry SDK**, you can develop rich AI applications that use resources in your Azure AI Foundry projects. The Azure AI Foundry SDK `AIProjectClient` class provides a programmatic proxy for a project, enabling you to access connected resources and to use service-specific libraries to consume them.