# [Generate images with AI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/generate-images-azure-openai/)

In **Azure AI Foundry**, you can use image generation models to create original images based on natural language prompts.

## Learning objectives

After completing this module, you'll be able to:

- Describe the capabilities of image generation models
- Use the Images playground in Azure AI Foundry portal
- Integrate image generation models into your apps

## Introduction

With Azure AI Foundry, you can use language models to generate content based on natural language prompts. Often the generated content is in the form of natural language text, but increasingly, models can generate other kinds of content.

For example, the OpenAI DALL-E image generation model can create original graphical content based on a description of a desired image.

The ability to **use AI to generate graphics has many applications**; including

- the creation of illustrations or photorealistic images for articles or marketing collateral
- generation of unique product or company logos, or
- any scenario where a desired image can be described.

In this module, you'll learn how to develop an application that uses generative AI to generate original images.

## What are image-generation models?

Azure AI Foundry supports multiple models that are capable of generating images, including (but not limited to):

- DALL-E 3
- GPT-Image 1

> Tip: For the latest information about model availability in Azure AI Foundry, view the model catalog. See [Model catalog and collections in Azure AI Foundry portal](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-foundry/how-to/model-catalog-overview) for details.

**Image generation models are generative AI model that can create graphical data from natural language input**. Put more simply, you can provide the model with a description and it can generate an appropriate image.

For example, you might submit the following natural language prompt to an image generation model:

`A squirrel on a motorcycle`

This prompt could result in the generation of graphical output such as the following image.

The images generated are original; they aren't retrieved from a curated image catalog. In other words, the model isn't a search system for finding appropriate images - it is an artificial intelligence (AI) model that generates new images based on the data on which it was trained.

---

## Explore image-generation models in Azure AI Foundry portal

To experiment with image generation models, you can create an Azure AI Foundry project and use the **Images playground** in Azure AI Foundry portal to submit prompts and view the resulting generated images.

When using the playground, you can adjust the **settings** to control the output. For example, when using a DALL-E model you can specify:

- The **resolution (size)** of the generated images. Available sizes are **1024x1024 (which is the default value), 1792x1024, or 1024x1792**.
- The **image style** to be generated (such as vivid or natural).
- The **image quality** (choose from standard or HD).

---

## Create a client application that uses an image generation model

You can use a **REST API** to consume DALL-E models from applications. Alternatively, you can use **a language-specific SDK** (for example, the OpenAI Python SDK or the Azure OpenAI .NET SDK) to abstract the REST methods.

You initiate the image generation process by **submitting a request to the service endpoint with the authorization key in the header**. **The request contains parameters describing the image-generation requirements**. For example, parameters for a DALL-E model include:

- **prompt**: The description of the image to be generated.
- **n**: The number of images to be generated. DALL-E 3 only supports n=1.
- **size**: The resolution of the image(s) to be generated (1024x1024, 1792x1024, or 1024x1792 for DALL-E 3)
- **quality** Optional: The quality of the image (standard or hd). Defaults to standard.
- **style** Optional: The visual style of the image (natural or vivid). Defaults to vivid.

For example, the following JSON could be submitted via the REST API to a DALL-E model, prompting it to generate an 1024 x 1024 image of a badger wearing a tuxedo:

`{
    "prompt": "A badger wearing a tuxedo",
    "n": 1,
    "size": "1024x1024",
    "quality": "hd",
    "style": "vivid"
}`

With DALL-E 3, the result from the request is **processed synchronously** with the response containing the URL for the generated image. The response is similar to the following JSON:

`{
    "created": 1686780744,
    "data": [
        {
            "url": "<URL of generated image>",
            "revised_prompt": "<prompt that was used>"
        }
    ]
}`

The **data** element includes the url value, which references **a PNG image file** generated from the prompt that you can then view or download. The response also contains a revised prompt that was used to generate the image, which was updated by the system to achieve the most desirable results. In this example, the image might look similar to the following image.

---

## [Exercise - Generate images with AI](https://microsoftlearning.github.io/mslearn-ai-vision/Instructions/Exercises/09-dall-e.html#create-a-client-application)

Now it's your chance to use generative AI to create images. In this exercise, you'll provision an Azure AI Foundry project and deploy a **DALL-E model**. Then, you'll explore image generation in the Azure AI Foundry portal. Finally, you'll use the Python or .NET SDK to consume the DALL-E model from a custom application.

In this exercise, you use the the OpenAI DALL-E generative AI model to generate images. You’ll develop your app by using Azure AI Foundry and the Azure OpenAI service.

### [Generate images with AI](https://microsoftlearning.github.io/mslearn-ai-vision/Instructions/Labs/09-dall-e.html)

In this exercise, you use the **OpenAI DALL-E** generative AI model to generate images. You also use the **OpenAI Python SDK** to create a simple app to generate images based on your prompts.

---

## Module assessment

1. You want to use a model in Azure AI Foundry to generate images. Which model should you use? **DALL-E**
2. Which playground in Azure AI Foundry portal should you use to test an image-generation model? **Images**
3. In a REST request to generate images, what does the n parameter indicate? **The number of images to be generated**.

---

## Summary

This module described **image generation models**, and how you can use them in Azure AI Foundry to generate images based on natural language prompts. You can explore image generation models using the **Images playground** in Azure AI Foundry portal, and you can use **REST APIs or SDKs** to build applications that generate new images.

> Tip: To learn more about using DALL-E in the Azure OpenAI service, see [Quickstart: Generate images with Azure OpenAI Service](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/dall-e-quickstart) in the Azure OpenAI service documentation.
