# [Read text in images](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/read-text-images-documents-with-computer-vision-service/)

The **Azure AI Vision Image Analysis** service uses algorithms to process images and return information. This module teaches you how to use the Image Analysis API for **optical character recognition (OCR)**.

## Learning objectives

In this module, you'll learn how to:

- Describe the OCR capabilities of *Azure AI Vision's Image Analysis API*.
- Use the Azure AI Vision service Image Analysis API to extract text from images.

---

## Introduction

We live in a digital world, in which data is increasingly captured as images. Often, those images contain text, which you need to be able to extract from their pixelated format in the image for processing, indexing, and other tasks. Everyday examples include:

- Meeting a new business associate and taking a photograph of their business card to store their contact details digitally.
- Scanning a document or ID card to include in an application for a government or commercial service.
- Taking a photo of a menu or recipe to store it in a digital notebook.
- Photographing street signs or store fronts so you can submit the text they contain to a translation app.
- Digitizing handwritten notes using a cellphone camera.

In this module, we'll explore the *optical character recognition (OCR)* capabilities of the Azure AI Vision Image Analysis API, which makes these scenarios, and more, possible.

---

## Explore Azure AI options for reading text

There are multiple Azure AI services that read text from documents and images, each optimized for results depending on the input and the specific requirements of your application.

### Azure AI Vision

Azure AI Vision includes an *image analysis* capability that supports *optical character recognition (OCR)*. Consider using Azure AI Vision in the following scenarios:

- **Text location and extraction from scanned documents**: Azure AI Vision is a great solution for general, unstructured documents that have been scanned as images. For example, *reading text in labels, menus, or business cards*.
- **Finding and reading text in photographs**: Examples include photo's that include *street signs and store names*.
- **Digital asset management (DAM)**: Azure AI Vision includes functionality for analyzing images beyond extracting text; including *object detection, describing or categorizing an image, generating smart-cropped thumbnails* and more. These capabilities make it a useful service when you need to catalog, index, or analyze large volumes of digital image-based content.

### Azure AI Document Intelligence

Azure AI Document Intelligence is a service that you can use to **extract information from complex digital documents**. Azure AI Document Intelligence is designed for *extracting text, key-value pairs, tables, and structures* from documents automatically and accurately. Key considerations for choosing Azure AI Document Intelligence include:

- **Form processing**: Azure AI Document Intelligence is specifically designed to *extract data from forms, invoices, receipts, and other structured documents*.
- **Prebuilt models**: Azure AI Document Intelligence provides prebuilt models for common document types to reduce complexity and integrate into workflows or applications.
- **Custom models**: Creating custom models tailored to your specific documents, makes Azure AI Document Intelligence a flexible solution that can be used in many business scenarios.

### Azure AI Content Understanding

Azure AI Content Understanding is a service that you can use to *analyze and extract information from multiple kinds of content*; including documents, images, audio streams, and video. It is suitable for:

- **Multimodal content extraction**: Extracting content and structured fields from documents, forms, audio, video, and images.
- **Custom content analysis scenarios**: Support for customizable analyzers enables you to extract specific content or fields tailored to business needs.

> Note: In the rest of this module, we'll focus on the OCR image analysis feature in Azure AI Vision. To learn more about Azure AI Document Intelligence and Azure AI Content understanding, consider completing the following training modules:
[Plan an Azure AI Document Intelligence solution](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/plan-form-recognizer-solution/)
[Analyze content with Azure AI Content Understanding](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/analyze-content-ai/)

---

## [Read text with Azure AI Vision Image Analysis](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/read-text-images-documents-with-computer-vision-service/4-use-read-api?pivots=csharp)

To use Azure AI Vision for image analysis, including optical character recognition, you must provision an Azure AI Vision resource in an Azure subscription. The resource can be:

- An **Azure AI Services** multi-service resource (either deployed as part of an Azure AI Foundry hub and project, or as a standalone resource).
- A **Computer Vision** resource.

To use your deployed resource in an application, you must connect to its **endpoint** using either **key-based authentication** or **Microsoft Entra ID authentication**. You can find the endpoint for your resource in the Azure portal, or if you're working in an Azure AI Foundry project, in the Azure AI Foundry portal. *The endpoint is in the form of a URL*, and typically looks something like this:

`https://<resource_name>.cognitiveservices.azure.com/`

After establishing a connection, you can use the OCR feature by calling the **ImageAnalysis** function (via the REST API or with an equivalent SDK method), passing the image URL or binary data, and optionally specifying the language the text is written in (with a default value of en for English).

`https://<endpoint>/computervision/imageanalysis:analyze?features=read&...`

To use the Azure AI Vision Python SDK to extract text from an image, install the **azure-ai-vision-imageanalysis** package. Then, in your code, use either key-based authentication or Microsoft Entra ID authentication to connect an **ImageAnalysisClient** object to an Azure AI Vision resource. To find and read text in an image, call the **analyze** (or analyze_from_url) method, specifying the **VisualFeatures.READ** enumeration.

The results of the Read OCR function are returned **synchronously**, either as JSON or the language-specific object of a similar structure. These results are broken down in *blocks* (with the current service only using one block), then *lines*, and then *words*. Additionally, the text values are included at both the *line* and *word* levels, making it easier to read entire lines of text if you don't need to extract text at the individual word level.

---

## [Exercise - Read text in images](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/read-text-images-documents-with-computer-vision-service/5-exercise)

Now it's your turn to try using the OCR capabilities of Azure AI Vision.

In this exercise, you use the Azure AI Vision Image Analysis SDK to develop a client application that extracts text from images.

### [Read text in images](https://microsoftlearning.github.io/mslearn-ai-vision/Instructions/Labs/02-ocr.html)

**Optical character recognition (OCR) is a subset of computer vision that deals with reading text in images and documents**. The Azure AI Vision Image Analysis service provides an API for reading text, which you’ll explore in this exercise.

---

## Module assessment

1. Which service should you use to locate and read text in signs within a photograph of a street? **Azure AI Vision Image Analysis**
2. Which visual feature enumeration should you use to return OCR results from an image analysis call? **VisualFeatures.Read**
3. Text location information in an image is returned at which levels by Azure AI Vision Image Analysis? **A block containing the location of lines of text as well as individual words**.

---

## Summary

In this module, you learned how to provision an Azure AI Vision resource and use it from a client application to extract text from images.

To learn more about using Azure AI Vision for OCR, see the [OCR - Optical Character Recognition](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/computer-vision/overview-ocr) in the Azure AI Vision documentation.